# cis1051
Final Project
The Banach Tarski Paradox:
7 years ago, one of my favorite youtubers, Michael Stevens (Channel name Vsauce), had uploaded a video titled "The Banach-Tarski Paradox". Stevens does videos on subjects that range from mathematical, philosophical, scientific, psychological, etc. This one in particular had stuck out to me since the day I watched it. Specifically, it was the visuals and voice over that began at around minute 15:26 of the video, that visualized and explained the paradox, which I found as a wonderful and intuitive way to explain said paradox. From the moment the final project assignment was presented, I had the idea to recreate this medium of explaining the Banach Tarski Paradox through python. The most difficult aspect of this was finding a suitable animation engine that I can use to animate code that was also suitable to my level of skill in programming. Though I came across a comment on an online forum, that referenced Manim as an animation engine for mathematical videos. This engine was perfect, and I very much enjoyed the process of going through it's library documentation and learning how I was to go about coding my project. There were many times in the project where I wanted to perform a certain action, and was able to find the perfect method or function to execute it in Manim's documentation. Applying what I had just learned and seeing my project come to fruition piece by piece was extremely satisfying, especially since I was recreating something from my childhood. I was also able to add my own touches to the animation, such as color coding a text label of the spheres (circles) with the color that corresponded to the sphere. Through a particular method in Manim, I was able to take that a step further. By having the text be a gradient of the colors that belonged to the spheres contained within one another(ie; a sphere that contained yellow/green/blue spheres would have its text be displayed in a gradient that went from yellow/green/blue). While I did not apply certain tools I had learned in 1051, I still feel I demonstrated all of the skills I picked up. My time was mainly allocated towards learning the new library and applying it, as such the code is not as contained as I would have liked it to be. Nevertheless, the final product is one which I am happy to present. 

https://youtu.be/YHZO0Cvv6fo
